it:=head1 NAME

sdhash-srv - server for storing and generating similarity digest hashes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<sdhash-srv> 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<sdhash-srv> is a companion server to the sdhash program.  It can
generate, load, save, and compare sets of hashes.  B<sdhash-mgr> is
a controller program which can be used for stop/start/status.

To start:

=over 8

B<sdhash-srv>

=back

To stop:

=over 8 

B<sdhash-mgr> stop

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-C> sdhash-srv.cfg 

The file sdhash-srv.cfg, in the current directory, is used to configure program options.
A different file may be used by changing the -C option.  All file-based options
are allowable on the command line as well.

Sample sdhash-srv.cfg file:

=over 8

	connections =20
	port = 9090
	threads = 24
	hashdir = /usr/local/sdhash-home
	sourcedir = /usr/local/sources

=back

=item B<-d> B<hashdir> 

A directory to store hashes in so that they will be loaded
at startup.  Default behavior is to search the current directory.

=item B<-s> B<sourcedir> 

A directory to search for source material to be hashed.

=item B<-t> B<threads> 

Sets the maximum hardware threads you can devote to hashing and
comparison. Default is single-thread operation.

=item B<-P> B<port> 

Sets the tcp port the server should run on.  It's advised that if you
only intend to run on localhost, that this port is firewalled to allow
only local connections.  Default port is 9090.

=item B<-c> B<connections> 

Sets the maximum number of tcp connections allowed at once.  Default
is 20 connections.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

B<sdhash-srv> was written by Vassil Roussev <vassil@roussev.net> and Candice Quates <candice@egobsd.org>. http://sdhash.org 

=head1 LICENSE

B<sdhash> is distributed under the Apache License v2.0

=cut
