=head1 NAME

sdhash-cli - client for similarity digest server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<sdhash-cli> [options] [mode] [files]


=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<sdhash-cli> is a client front end to the sdhash server sdhash-srv.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4 

=item B<-H>, B<--host> <hostname>

Connects to sdhash server running at host.  Client defaults to localhost.

=item B<-P>, B<--port> <port>

Sets port of sdhash server to connect to.  Client defaults to port 9090.

=item B<-b>, B<--block-size> <N>

Enables block mode for hash generation.  Hashes will be generated in Nkb blocks.
Suggested block size for disk hashes is 16, for memory dumps we suggest 4.

=item B<-t>, B<--threshold> <-1-100>

Sets a confidence threshold for comparisions.  Use this to filter results
to reduce false positives.  Used with comparison and query modes.
Use '-1' to display all comparisons.

=item B<-s>, B<--sample-size> <1-16>

Uses a sampling of filters to perform queries, which speeds up
query results significantly.  Used for query-mode only.

=item B<--verbose> 

Displays warnings

=back

=head1 MODES

=over 4

=item B<HASHING,LOADING,SAVING,LISTING>

=item B<-l>, B<--list> 

List sets of hashes currently loaded on the running server. 

=item B<default> <files>

The default mode is generation mode, and will generate similiarity digests of 
all files given to it on the command line and save them to a set.
Using -b will generate block-based hash digests which are useful for processing disk images and memory dumps.

=over 4

B<sdhash-cli> [options] file1 file2 file4 foo* 

B<sdhash-cli> B<--block-size> 16 image.dd

=back

=item B<-i>, B<--import> <file.sdbf>

Imports a sdbf file into the server.  

=item B<-e>, B<--export> <N> <file.sdbf>

Exports set number N to file.sdbf.

=item B<-d>, B<--show-set-data> <N> 

Prints all SDBFs in set number N to stdout.

=item B<-n>, B<--show-set-names> <N> 

Prints names and sizes of all SDBFs in set number N to stdout.

=item B<COMPARING>

=item B<-c>, B<--compare> <N>

Single comparison mode takes a set number as an argument and compares each item in that set to every other item in that set.

=over 4

B<sdhash-cli> B<--compare> 3
B<sdhash-cli> B<-c> 3

=back

=item B<-c>, B<--compare> <N> <M>

Comparison mode can also compare two sets, numbers N and M, optionally sampling the "query" with the B<-s> sample size
option, and compares each digest in the query to each digest in the target.

=over 4

B<sdhash-cli> B<--compare> 3 5

B<sdhash-cli> B<--sample-size> 4 B<--compare> 0 4

B<sdhash-cli> B<-s> 4 B<-c> 2 7

=back

=item B<--results-list> 

Retrieve a listing of results

=item B<--type> <default|indexing|web>

Sets the type of results listing searched for.  If omitted, will search
for comparison default results.

=item B<-r>, B<--results> resultID

Returns saved results, if any, associated with a resultID retrieved
from B<--results-list>

=item B<SEARCHING>

Searching uses index files generated upon hashing or loaded into the
server to provide a fast lookup mechanism useful for driving data filtering.
Searching does not generate a saved set of digests; it generates a results set.
Results can be retrieved by using B<--results-list> B<--type> indexing.

=item B<--index-search> 

Produces matches by searching set-level indexes.

=item B<--index> 

Hashing option, generate and save indexes while creating sdbf hashes.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

B<sdhash-cli> was written by Vassil Roussev <vassil@roussev.net> and Candice Quates <candice@egobsd.org>.  http://sdhash.org/

=head1 LICENSE

B<sdhash-cli> is distributed under the Apache License v2.0

=cut
